notes/notes.md, before:

Use Descriptors over Fingerprints: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9320518/



target_cols = ['Fish', 'Flower', 'Fruit', 'Spices', 'Sweaty', 'Wood', 'Pleasantness']<br>
Acc = output within 10% of target<br>
Most go to 0.1 acc<br>
Fruit goes to 0.06<br>
Spices goes to 0.15<br>
Pleasantness goes to 0.3/0.35<br>



1 model VS many:
    Many can use different descriptors as input, but probably not useful as we can just pass the first 93 columns to get .99 of variance.
    Many gives more clarity to what odors are easier and harder to predict.
    1 is simpler/easier.



Use spacy web_lg model to get similar columns in arc to those in keller
Arc says 126 = woody, Keller says 126[Wood] = 0.7%, highest are Sweet(15%), Chemical(12%)
Made Keller binary by:
    First take most common columns from Keller and Arc (at least 1% occurence when combined, lowest is cold=3%)
        ['Chemical', 'Cold', 'Flower', 'Fruit', 'Garlic', 'Grass', 'Musky', 'Spices', 'Sweet', 'Wood']
    Then use keller > 8.95, as this gives the same percentage of ones as Arc (16.9%)

<h1>Euclidian Model</h1>
<h2>BCELoss()</h2>

![](acc_bce.png)

![](f1_bce.png)

<h2>BCEWithLogitsLoss(pos_weight=bce_positive_weights)</h2>
label_occurences = torch.tensor([0.137863, 0.035742, 0.498822, 0.352710, 0.104870, 0.251767, 0.111155, 0.065593, 0.147290, 0.148861])<br>
adjusted_occurences = np.power((label_occurences / label_occurences.min()), 0.5) * label_occurences.min()<br>
bce_positive_weights = adjusted_occurences.min() / adjusted_occurences<br>
WEIGHT_SCALAR = 0.75 / label_occurences.max()<br>
bce_positive_weights = bce_positive_weights / bce_positive_weights.min() * WEIGHT_SCALAR<br>

![](loss_weightedbce.png)

![](acc_weightedbce.png)

![](f1_weightedbce.png)


<h1>Molecule Graph</h1>

![](mol_graph.png)

<h2>Molecule Graph</h2>

<div style="display: flex;">
    <img src="hyp_emb_c1.png" alt="Image 1" style="width: 33%;">
    <img src="hyp_emb_c2.png" alt="Image 2" style="width: 33%;">
    <img src="hyp_emb_c4.png" alt="Image 3" style="width: 33%;">
</div>


<h1>Bad Mordred descriptors (arc_dataset.csv)</h1>

<!-- | Trad NN  | 0.058    | 0.320        | 0.610       | 0.445    | -->
<!-- | HypLL NN | 0.031    | 0.340        | 0.630       | 0.440    | -->
| Model                                                    | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Sensitivity | F1 Score |
|----------------------------------------------------------|----------|--------------|-------------|----------|
| XGBoost                                                  | 0.240    | 0.189        | 0.394       | 0.478    |
| Trad NN                                                  | 0.161    | 0.251        | 0.539       | 0.484    |
| HypLL NN 1-threshold tuning (acc)                        | 0.155    | 0.256        | 0.514       | 0.467    |
| HypLL NN grid search                                     | 0.119    | 0.289        | 0.584       | 0.468    |
| HypLL NN grid search + 1-threshold tuning (acc)          | 0.210    | 0.218        | 0.352       | 0.410    |
| HypLL NN grid search + all-threshold tuning (occurences) | 0.146    | 0.250        | 0.449       | 0.440    |


<h1>Good Mordred descriptors (arc_red_zero.csv)</h1>

| Model    | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Sensitivity | F1 Score |
|----------|----------|--------------|-------------|----------|
| XGBoost  | 0.269    | 0.179        | 0.419       | 0.506    |
| Trad NN quick by hand (t=0.7) | 0.205 | 0.221 | 0.550 | 0.521 |
| HypLL NN grid search (t=0.5) | 0.267 | 0.197 | 0.450 | 0.500 |
| HypLL NN grid search (t=0.7) | 0.273 | 0.187 | 0.368 | 0.462 |

| Model                        | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Precision | Sensitivity | F1 Score | mAP   |
|------------------------------|----------|--------------|-----------|-------------|----------|-------|
| HypLL NN t_red (t=0.65) | 0.294    | 0.179        | 0.660     | 0.374       | 0.477    | 0.510 |
| HypLL NN t_all (t=0.6)  | 0.144    | 0.151        | 0.623     | 0.387       | 0.478    | 0.426 |



<h1>PaDEL descriptors and fingerprints (arc_PaDEL.csv)</h1>

| Model                | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Precision | Sensitivity | F1 Score | mAP   |
|----------------------|----------|--------------|-----------|-------------|----------|-------|
| HypLL NN t_red 0.6   | 0.280    | 0.197        | 0.558     | 0.486       | 0.520    | 0.510 |
| HypLL NN t_red 0.65  | 0.276    | 0.185        | 0.620     | 0.390       | 0.479    | 0.510 |
| HypLL NN t_all       | 0.157    | 0.151        | 0.605     | 0.441       | 0.510    | 0.465 |


<h1>PaDEL + Mordred (arc_comb_red.csv)</h1>

| Model                | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Precision | Sensitivity | F1 Score | mAP   |
|----------------------|----------|--------------|-----------|-------------|----------|-------|
| HypLL NN t_red f_all | 0.275    | 0.183        | 0.638     | 0.376       | 0.473    | 0.510 |
| HypLL NN t_red f_326 | 0.271    | 0.196        | 0.559     | 0.489       | 0.521    | 0.499 |
| HypLL NN t_all       | 0.170    | 0.141        | 0.675     | 0.410       | 0.510    | 0.476 |


<h1>Mass Spectra (arc_ms_spec.csv)</h1>

| Model                | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Precision | Sensitivity | F1 Score | mAP   |
|----------------------|----------|--------------|-----------|-------------|----------|-------|
| Trad  NN t_red f_red | 0.172    | 0.238        | 0.441     | 0.371       | 0.402    | 0.356 |
| HypLL NN t_red f_all | 0.159    | 0.225        | 0.467     | 0.260       | 0.334    | 0.370 |
| HypLL NN t_red f_red | 0.174    | 0.247        | 0.422     | 0.386       | 0.403    | 0.376 |
| HypLL NN t_all f_red | 0.093    | 0.181        | 0.487     | 0.300       | 0.372    | 0.328 |


<h1>Mass Spectra Var Ordered (arc_ms_spec.csv)</h1>

| Model                | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Precision | Sensitivity | F1 Score | mAP   |
|----------------------|----------|--------------|-----------|-------------|----------|-------|
| Trad  NN t_red f_194 | 0.170    | 0.234        | 0.450     | 0.358       | 0.400    | 0.358 |
| Trad  NN t_all f_194 | 0.097    | 0.172        | 0.540     | 0.295       | 0.381    | 0.329 |
| HypLL NN t_red f_194 | 0.182    | 0.222        | 0.477     | 0.326       | 0.387    | 0.394 |
| HypLL NN t_all f_194 | 0.115    | 0.177        | 0.510     | 0.329       | 0.400    | 0.341 |



<h1> STRAWBERRIES: </h1>
Predicting doing overall-liking (0-1):

| Model | MAE |
|-------|-----|
| XGBoost | 0.041961 |
| Euc NN 0X32 | 0.00103 |
| Hyp NN 1X64 | 0.00056 |


<h1> TOMATOS: </h1>
Predicting doing overall-liking (0-1):

| Model | MAE |
|-------|-----|
| XGBoost | 0.102072 |
| Euc NN | 0.00061 |
| Hyp NN | 0.00081 |



<h1> PLAN: </h1>
Hyperbolic Models need a fraction of the parameters to match <br>
the performance of Traditional NN Models for the strawberry data. <br>
Try the different ways to represent data to see if this holds in general. <br>
Implement something myself to get an 8 or higher, <br>
think of Self Attention or CNN in HypLL. <br>

Commit message:

realised that I was testing training score and not validation score :)

notes/notes.md, after:

Use Descriptors over Fingerprints: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9320518/



target_cols = ['Fish', 'Flower', 'Fruit', 'Spices', 'Sweaty', 'Wood', 'Pleasantness']<br>
Acc = output within 10% of target<br>
Most go to 0.1 acc<br>
Fruit goes to 0.06<br>
Spices goes to 0.15<br>
Pleasantness goes to 0.3/0.35<br>



1 model VS many:
    Many can use different descriptors as input, but probably not useful as we can just pass the first 93 columns to get .99 of variance.
    Many gives more clarity to what odors are easier and harder to predict.
    1 is simpler/easier.



Use spacy web_lg model to get similar columns in arc to those in keller
Arc says 126 = woody, Keller says 126[Wood] = 0.7%, highest are Sweet(15%), Chemical(12%)
Made Keller binary by:
    First take most common columns from Keller and Arc (at least 1% occurence when combined, lowest is cold=3%)
        ['Chemical', 'Cold', 'Flower', 'Fruit', 'Garlic', 'Grass', 'Musky', 'Spices', 'Sweet', 'Wood']
    Then use keller > 8.95, as this gives the same percentage of ones as Arc (16.9%)

<h1>Euclidian Model</h1>
<h2>BCELoss()</h2>

![](acc_bce.png)

![](f1_bce.png)

<h2>BCEWithLogitsLoss(pos_weight=bce_positive_weights)</h2>
label_occurences = torch.tensor([0.137863, 0.035742, 0.498822, 0.352710, 0.104870, 0.251767, 0.111155, 0.065593, 0.147290, 0.148861])<br>
adjusted_occurences = np.power((label_occurences / label_occurences.min()), 0.5) * label_occurences.min()<br>
bce_positive_weights = adjusted_occurences.min() / adjusted_occurences<br>
WEIGHT_SCALAR = 0.75 / label_occurences.max()<br>
bce_positive_weights = bce_positive_weights / bce_positive_weights.min() * WEIGHT_SCALAR<br>

![](loss_weightedbce.png)

![](acc_weightedbce.png)

![](f1_weightedbce.png)


<h1>Molecule Graph</h1>

![](mol_graph.png)

<h2>Molecule Graph</h2>

<div style="display: flex;">
    <img src="hyp_emb_c1.png" alt="Image 1" style="width: 33%;">
    <img src="hyp_emb_c2.png" alt="Image 2" style="width: 33%;">
    <img src="hyp_emb_c4.png" alt="Image 3" style="width: 33%;">
</div>


<h1>Bad Mordred descriptors (arc_dataset.csv)</h1>

<!-- | Trad NN  | 0.058    | 0.320        | 0.610       | 0.445    | -->
<!-- | HypLL NN | 0.031    | 0.340        | 0.630       | 0.440    | -->
| Model                                                    | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Sensitivity | F1 Score |
|----------------------------------------------------------|----------|--------------|-------------|----------|
| XGBoost                                                  | 0.240    | 0.189        | 0.394       | 0.478    |
| Trad NN                                                  | 0.161    | 0.251        | 0.539       | 0.484    |
| HypLL NN 1-threshold tuning (acc)                        | 0.155    | 0.256        | 0.514       | 0.467    |
| HypLL NN grid search                                     | 0.119    | 0.289        | 0.584       | 0.468    |
| HypLL NN grid search + 1-threshold tuning (acc)          | 0.210    | 0.218        | 0.352       | 0.410    |
| HypLL NN grid search + all-threshold tuning (occurences) | 0.146    | 0.250        | 0.449       | 0.440    |


<h1>Good Mordred descriptors (arc_red_zero.csv)</h1>

| Model    | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Sensitivity | F1 Score |
|----------|----------|--------------|-------------|----------|
| XGBoost  | 0.269    | 0.179        | 0.419       | 0.506    |
| Trad NN quick by hand (t=0.7) | 0.205 | 0.221 | 0.550 | 0.521 |
| HypLL NN grid search (t=0.5) | 0.267 | 0.197 | 0.450 | 0.500 |
| HypLL NN grid search (t=0.7) | 0.273 | 0.187 | 0.368 | 0.462 |

| Model                        | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Precision | Sensitivity | F1 Score | mAP   |
|------------------------------|----------|--------------|-----------|-------------|----------|-------|
| HypLL NN t_red (t=0.65) | 0.294    | 0.179        | 0.660     | 0.374       | 0.477    | 0.510 |
| HypLL NN t_all (t=0.6)  | 0.144    | 0.151        | 0.623     | 0.387       | 0.478    | 0.426 |



<h1>PaDEL descriptors and fingerprints (arc_PaDEL.csv)</h1>

| Model                | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Precision | Sensitivity | F1 Score | mAP   |
|----------------------|----------|--------------|-----------|-------------|----------|-------|
| HypLL NN t_red 0.6   | 0.280    | 0.197        | 0.558     | 0.486       | 0.520    | 0.510 |
| HypLL NN t_red 0.65  | 0.276    | 0.185        | 0.620     | 0.390       | 0.479    | 0.510 |
| HypLL NN t_all       | 0.157    | 0.151        | 0.605     | 0.441       | 0.510    | 0.465 |


<h1>PaDEL + Mordred (arc_comb_red.csv)</h1>

| Model                | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Precision | Sensitivity | F1 Score | mAP   |
|----------------------|----------|--------------|-----------|-------------|----------|-------|
| HypLL NN t_red f_all | 0.275    | 0.183        | 0.638     | 0.376       | 0.473    | 0.510 |
| HypLL NN t_red f_326 | 0.271    | 0.196        | 0.559     | 0.489       | 0.521    | 0.499 |
| HypLL NN t_all       | 0.170    | 0.141        | 0.675     | 0.410       | 0.510    | 0.476 |


<h1>Mass Spectra (arc_ms_spec.csv)</h1>

| Model                | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Precision | Sensitivity | F1 Score | mAP   |
|----------------------|----------|--------------|-----------|-------------|----------|-------|
| Trad  NN t_red f_red | 0.172    | 0.238        | 0.441     | 0.371       | 0.402    | 0.356 |
| HypLL NN t_red f_all | 0.159    | 0.225        | 0.467     | 0.260       | 0.334    | 0.370 |
| HypLL NN t_red f_red | 0.174    | 0.247        | 0.422     | 0.386       | 0.403    | 0.376 |
| HypLL NN t_all f_red | 0.093    | 0.181        | 0.487     | 0.300       | 0.372    | 0.328 |


<h1>Mass Spectra Var Ordered (arc_ms_spec.csv)</h1>

| Model                | Accuracy | Hamming Loss | Precision | Sensitivity | F1 Score | mAP   |
|----------------------|----------|--------------|-----------|-------------|----------|-------|
| Trad  NN t_red f_194 | 0.170    | 0.234        | 0.450     | 0.358       | 0.400    | 0.358 |
| Trad  NN t_all f_194 | 0.097    | 0.172        | 0.540     | 0.295       | 0.381    | 0.329 |
| HypLL NN t_red f_194 | 0.182    | 0.222        | 0.477     | 0.326       | 0.387    | 0.394 |
| HypLL NN t_all f_194 | 0.115    | 0.177        | 0.510     | 0.329       | 0.400    | 0.341 |



<h1> STRAWBERRIES: </h1>
Predicting doing overall-liking (0-1):

| Model | MAE |
|-------|-----|
| XGBoost | 0.041961 |
| Euc NN 0X32 | 0.00103 |
| Hyp NN 1X64 | 0.00056 |


<h1> TOMATOS: </h1>
Predicting doing overall-liking (0-1):

| Model | MAE |
|-------|-----|
| XGBoost | 0.102072 |
| Euc NN | 0.00061 |
| Hyp NN | 0.00081 |



<h1> PLAN: </h1>
We use the exact data from the hyperbolic olfactory, specifically strawberry and tomato.<br>
We train on the Overall-Liking label as this was shown to be an axis in the hyperbolic embedding made by the paper.<br>
HOPEFULLY: This has shown that hyperbolic NN's indeed have some advantage over Euclidean NN's for this data.<br>
We now also test the hypothesis on the beer data, so that we can compare our results against their results.<br>
